I will provide you some files
and if you did the
optional set of video,
you've already had those
files up and ready to go.
If you decided to skip
that, that's fine.
You can use the provided files.
You should get this zipped file
for the font test files here.
On Windows don't forget
that you have to unzip it.
Windows will make
it look like you
can access it by
double-clicking it,
but it won't actually
work properly.
You have to actually unzip
it by right-clicking and
choosing Extract All.
I have to do that.
On the Mac, all you have to
do is double-click it and it
will automatically
unzip, which is great.
Once I've zipped that,
I can throw this trash the
zip file in the trash and I'm
working with this one
and you can open up
these files in your code editor
and work with them
if you want to.
Alternatively, what I'm going
to be doing is I'm going to be
working with those same files
inside my website here,
this font test folder here
so as to not get confused.
I'm going to throw this folder
away because I'm just not
going to be using that
one for right now.
I'm going to use them
inside this folder but you
can work on it locally on
your desktop if you want.
Let's talk about
fonts on the web.
Generally speaking, when
you create a website and
you use some styles to add
some fonts to your page,
then the fonts are going
to get loaded from
the local computer
that you're working
on or that somebody is
viewing your website from.
If somebody comes
to your website,
it's going to say use
whichever font you've
chosen and if it's on
that local computer,
it will display it.
If that font is not on
that local computer,
the local computer will
substitute a different font.
Because of that, we've
had a limited set of
fonts that we can
reliably be fairly certain
are on most computers.
These fonts include
Aerial, Verdana,
Georgia, Times New Roman,
Courier, maybe a few others.
There's very few.
For a long time,
we were really limited to
the fonts that we could use.
In the previous videos,
we talked about the
font-face CSS module,
which allows us to
download and use fonts
locally on the computer
from the Internet,
which is super useful.
In this lesson, we'll be looking
at how to actually do that.
To get started with this,
we need a font that we can use.
We're going to use this
Freight Round font
and this is another
file that I will
provide for you that
you can work with.
This typeface was created by
a friend and colleague of
mine named Robbie Woodard.
He owns the font
and I asked him,
could I use this
font in my lessons
to teach people about
creating web fonts and
working with web fonts,
and he gave me
permission to do that.
I have permission from
the person who owns
the fonts to do this
with you and for
you to use these fonts and to
work with them in this way.
It's important to mention that
because fonts are
licensed generally.
When you purchase a font,
when you get a font
from somewhere,
you're getting a
license to use it.
You're not actually
buying the font.
You're buying the
license to use it.
Those licenses can
come with restrictions
about where and when and
how that font can be used.
Because I know the creator
of this font and he
gave us permission,
we're okay to do this with
this particular font,
but depending on where
you get your fonts,
you may or may not have
the license in order to
be able to use them.
I'm going to provide you with
these files for this font
and you'll see here if
I unzip the font again,
I'm going to Extract All.
Once again I've got a folder
here for macOS. I don't need.
I can just trash that.
But these are OTF files.
OTF stands for OpenType format.
The OpenType format became
popular in the early 2000s,
and it has a lot of
potential glyphs inside
of an OpenType format.
Plus it's cross-platform
for both Mac and Windows.
If I were to double click
on these typefaces,
you would see I'd be able
to add them right into
the system for this computer
and I could use them in
Microsoft Word or
whatever applications
where I can select fonts.
I'd be able to use
these fonts here.
That's really cool
that you can do that.
The other popular format
for fonts is TTF,
which is TrueType fonts.
TrueType was originally
developed by Apple in order
to get around Adobe
licensing and
that's oversimplifying it but
essentially Apple created
their own formats so they
could distribute fonts on
their computers and Windows
can follow suit with TTF,
but the OpenType format is
the newer format and it's
really nice for fonts.